Data oriented technology stack or dots for unity physics.
In this video, we'll cover what is Unity dots and what are the three major features.
We'll also look at how dots will impact the future of unity physics.
So what is dots?
Dance is a project by unity that promises performance by default.
It takes advantage of today's multi core processors and Unity's new high performance system data oriented
technology stack.
Your games will run faster and your code will be easier to read and reuse across other projects.
Take a look at this screenshot from the free megacity demo by Unity Technologies.
It's a really complex scene with lots going on in the megacity demo.
It features four and a half million mesh renders and over 200,000 unique building objects.
It's so complex and would not be possible without dots to accomplish this.
Unity is rebuilding the core of the tool.
It's rebuilding each of the major systems with high performance multithreaded dots.
Features of this system are the C-sharp job system for running multithreaded code, the entity component
system for writing high performance code and finally the burst compiler for producing highly optimized
native code.
So what is dots Physics.
In the future, Dot's physics will be rebranded to just unity physics.
The philosophy is complete deterministic, rigid body dynamics and spatial query system written in high
performance.
C-sharp It will be stateless unity Physics forgoes any caching in favor of simplicity.
It's modular, it's decoupled from other systems, and it encourages its re-use.
It's performant.
It will meet or exceed the performance of any commercially available physics engine.
So what does this mean for us?
The principles we cover in this course are relevant for today's physics, as well as the future with
unity physics, The version of today's 2D and 3D physics that we cover will continue to exist.
Unity Physics will be an additional option for blazing fast speed improvements.
Let's see.
Dots.
Physics in action.
The following steps have already been done for you.
But here's the steps.
If you wanted to create a project from scratch, first, you check out this repo.
Then you open up the latest Unity editor and open up the Unity Physics Examples Project.
Then we have to make sure we have the right packages and update them.
So open up the package manager, click Advanced Click Show preview packages Verify you have the latest
version of the required packages, including Unity Physics.
Let's take a look at a demo.
Note that compared to every other demo in this course, this one is located in a separate project.
That's because it has unique setup aspects.
Play the scene and will inspect the scene together.
We'll see that the physics, shape and physics body are new components.
We'll check out my restart scene controller code and see how I had to tweak it specifically for dots.
As a bonus, I've added some spanners to the scene.
We'll be able to add a lot of physics objects and see how the performance works.
All right, let's open up our Dots project here.
Again, note that this is a different project than we've used for the rest of the course.
That's because this needs some specific setup.
But here in the Unity Physics Dots example, we'll run the scene and see a pretty similar setup.
We've got a stack of cubes, something like our demos we've used before.
I can even hit the spacebar and reload the scene as we've been able to do before.
And if we look into the scene, we'll notice that we have no cubes in here anymore.
There's a temporary, I think, unique aspect to dots in that once the scene starts, certain objects
will disappear.
It's not a bug.
It's just a way that the optimization works and in the future that will be represented in the hierarchy.
So if we look at one of the cubes, instead of seeing the familiar collider, we see physics shape.
And instead of seeing the familiar rigid body, we see physics body.
So there's a different naming scheme here.
But a lot of the similar values we'd expect to see, including being able to have something like a physics
material for bouncing --, etc..
Something else I wanted to show is that I was able to restart the scene, but I had to add a little
bit of something to the code down here.
In addition to reloading the scene which I did before here for dots, I have to restart the system by
destroying what are called entities in the scene.
So definitely a little bit more thinking I have to do when I had to do some simple steps here but works
great.
Lastly, I want to show I have a sponsor set up here that's going to spawn 3000 different objects in
the world.
Let's see how well it performs.
I'm going to show just the game view here and give it a play.
I'm also going to turn on the frame rate counter.
You can see we're at about six frames, ten frames a second when the scene first starts and then it
quickly gains a lot of speed.
I think it's the instantiation of items in the world that's expensive.
But then the physics operation runs really well.
Here we have thousands of objects more than we can even see on screen, and I'm still able to interact
with them with really good frame rate.
I think this will continue to improve as the project matures, but we were already seeing really good
performance.
So that's it.
That's a quick overview of Unity Dots.
This is the end of the course.
Thank you very much.